Adds case study: redis-case-study.md (#153)
NoroffFEU/development-platforms: src/content/docs/caching/redis/redis-case-study.md

---
title: Redis Case Study
author: Eirik Berget Haukeland <eirik-haukeland>
tags: Redis, case study, platform, cashing
---

## Introduction

Redis is an in-memory database with pupsub functionality. Typically, Redis is used as a caching layer for data that would 

> otherwise be slow to get from disk/database therefore slow down api requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
otherwise be slow to get from a disk or database, therefore slowing down api requests.
```

### Well known companies that uses Redis

- GitHub[^7]
- Stack Overflow[^8]
- Trello[^6]

[Here is a more complete list from techstecks.io.](https://techstacks.io/tech/redis)

## Brief History

- May 2009: initial realise.
- May 2013: Redis was sponsored by pivotal Software[^4].
- June 2015: Redis became funded by Redis Labs[^4].
- October 2018: Release of Redis 5.0, and introduction of Redis Stream.

> - June 2020: Salvatore Sanfilippo[^1] hands of the role of maintainer to Yossi Gottlieb[^2], and Oran Agra[^3] who now 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- June 2020: Salvatore Sanfilippo[^1] hands off the role of maintainer to Yossi Gottlieb[^2] and Oran Agra[^3] who now 
```

manage it with a light governance model[^5].

## Main Features

> - Redis is an in-memory database an as a result it is very fast.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Redis is an in-memory database and as a result it is very fast.
```

> - It has two different ways to back up the data that is stored in case of a failure where you can either backup each write

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It has two different ways to back up the data that is stored in case of a failure, where you can either backup each write
```

as it occurs, backup the entire database at an interval, if there has been a change, or do both[^12].

> - As well as two ways to handle synchronizing multiple Redis databases and high availability called sentinel[^10] and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It also has two ways to handle synchronizing multiple Redis databases and high availability, called sentinel[^10] and
```

> the other is using clusters[^11] with cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the other uses clusters[^11] with cluster.
```
Is the (lack of) capitalisation correct?

> - Redis has the pubsub functionality[^13].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Redis has pubsub functionality[^13].
```

## Market Comparison

| Subject           |                                             Redis                                              |                                         Memcached                                          |
|:------------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| Database Model    |                    Key-value store, document store[^14], vector store[^15]                     |                                      Key-value store                                       |
| Speed             |                                In-memory store gives good speed                                |                              In-memory store gives good speed                              |

> | Scalability       |       You can scale Redis by connecting multiple Redis databases se sentinel or cluster        |                   All memcached instates are unaware of each other[^16]                    |

Reviewer: se?

| High Availability |                       You can configure HA[^18] with sentinel or cluster                       |                                         No option                                          |

> | Persistence       | Redis has a two options for persistence, but it can be times when it do not get stored in time |                        There are some settings for persistence[^17]                        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Persistence       | Redis has a two options for persistence, though sometimes the data is not stored in time |                        There are some settings for persistence[^17]                        |
```

| when ram is full  |     Redis will give error messages on write commands. you can settup eviction rules[^19].      | When out of room Memcached whil pruge the older data in order of least recently used[^20]. |

## Getting Started

In this section I will go over installing Redis and some basic use with Redis-cli and using a nodejs library call 
ioredis.

> ### setting up the Redis server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Setting up the Redis server
```

To use Redis you can either install it on your server or use a service like [Redis Cloud](https://redis.com/try-free/). 
Here we will be using docker to install the 
[Redis server (link to the official Redis image on docker hub)](https://hub.docker.com/_/redis), but if you want to do a

> more manual installation feel free to look at Redis own documentation for instructions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
more manual installation feel free to look at Redis' own documentation for instructions:
```

- [Install Redis on Linux](https://redis.io/docs/install/install-redis/install-redis-on-linux/)
- [Install Redis on Mac](https://redis.io/docs/install/install-redis/install-redis-on-mac-os/)
- [Install Redis on Windows](https://redis.io/docs/install/install-redis/install-redis-on-windows/)

> If you want to follow along this example and not have a docker running on your system please look here for installation 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to follow along with this example and do not have docker running on your system please look here for installation instructions:
```

instructions:

- [Install docker on Linux](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/linux-install/)
- [Install docker on Mac](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/)
- [Install docker on Windows](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/windows-install/)

In open your terminal and run the following command:

```shell
docker run --name redis-test-server -p 6379:6379 -d --rm redis:latest
```

> #### the installation command in step by step:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### The installation command step by step:
```

- docker  

> The name of program to run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name of the program to run.
```

- run  

> Tells docker to install this container if you already have a container you can use different subcommands like: 

Reviewer: This is unclear.

start (starts container specified by name or id that is inactive), ps (lists the containers docker knows about), 
rm (removes container specified by name or id that is inactive), and many more 
[here is a complete list of docker subcommands.](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/cli/#subcommands)
- --name  

> Set the name we will use when accessing this docker container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sets the name we will use when accessing this docker container.
```

- -p  

> Set the ports the pattern here is port-outside-container:port-inside-container so if port 6397 is already in use you can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the ports. The pattern here is port-outside-container:port-inside-container so if port 6397 is already in use you can
```

change the number before the colon to a number to any port from 1025 that are not already in use (f.exs 1234:6397).
- -d  

> This tells docker to start the container in the background so that we can use the terminal for other tings. if omitted we 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tells docker to start the container in the background so that we can use the terminal for other things. If omitted we 
```

will see all the read and write logs appear in this terminal.
- --rm  
This tells docker to remove the container after you stop it.
- redis:latest  

> This is the container we want to run, Redis in this case, and :latest specify the version to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the container we want to run, Redis in this case, and :latest specifies the version to use.
```

[For a list of available Redis versions see here.](https://hub.docker.com/_/redis/tags)

### Accessing the Redis with redis-cli

As we are using docker to run Redis. we will be using the redis-cli bundled with the docker container. 

> Then run the following in the terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following in the terminal:
```

```shell
docker exec -it redis-test-server redis-cli
```

> #### The new instructions in command step by step:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### The above command explained:
```

- exec  
This subcommand tells docker we want to execute a command inside the docker container.
- -it  
This stands for interactive terminal and means we want the to see and interact with the terminal inside the container.
- redis-test-server  
The name of the container we want to execute commands on.
- redis-cli  
The command we want to execute in the container. Note that this command must be available inside the image. The Redis 
image comes with redis-cli bundled.

#### Interacting with the Redis-cli

Redis has multiple types. In this study I will look at the following:

- Strings
- Lists
- Hashes

[See here for a full list of types.](https://redis.io/docs/data-types/)

> And go over some commands you can use on those types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some commands you can use on those types.
```

##### Strings

###### To set a string value in the database use:

```redis
set key value
```
*Note*: 
The value will always be set to a string if you want to use a space in the value then you need to wrap the value in quotes.
 
If the value was accepted it will return `OK`.

###### To retrieve a string value use:

```redis
get key
```
If the key defined then it will return the value in this case like this `"value"`   

> other vice if the key undefined then it will return `(nil)`

Author: nil is the value i got when testing in the redis-cli.
when using a library i assume that the nil/null value will be the normal value for the language

###### If you want to set a string if the key is not already in use then use

```redis
set key value2 nx
```

> In this case as "key" is already set above it will return `(integer) 0` witch in this case is the same as `False` in 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case as "key" is already set above it will return `(integer) 0` which in this case is the same as `False` in 
```

javaScript.  

If we used a different key like so:

```redis
set foo value2 nx
```

Assuming that foo has not been sett elsewhere it will return `(interger) 1` witch in this case is equal to `True` in 
javascript.

*Note:*  
`set [your Key] "[your value]" nx` has a shorthand version like this: `setnx [your Key] "[your value]"`

###### If you want to only set a variable if the key already is in use

```redis
set foo "bar" xx
```

When this is successful it will return `OK` if not then it will return `(nil)`.

###### To set multiple values at once you can do that like this
```redis
mset key1 "foo" key2 "bar" key3 "baz"
```

> On an acceptable commands Redis will return `OK`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On an acceptable commands Redis will return `OK`.  

```

If you have more keys than values or one of your variables used a space without being wrapped in quotes then Redis will 
return an error like this `(error) ERR wrong number of arguments for 'mset' command`.  

*Note:*  

> `mset` will make multiple individual key/value sets these are in no way connected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mset` will make multiple individual key/value sets. These are in no way connected.
```
